docs: add whats new section (#484)
lumicks/pylake: docs/whatsnew/1.0.0/1_0_0.rst

This allows you to immediately try out the various functionalities Pylake has to offer.
The new :doc:`theory section</theory/index>` provides examples and references to literature for further reading.

Creating kymographs from camera recordings
------------------------------------------

.. image:: kymo_to_stack.png

A new feature introduced in `1.0.0` is the ability to convert camera recordings to kymographs.
After defining a tether, you can call :meth:`~lumicks.pylake.ImageStack.to_kymo` which rotates the camera images such that the tether is aligned with the horizontal axis and sums a region around the tether.
To read more about this feature, please refer to the :ref:`tutorial<kymo_from_image>`.

Bias correction
---------------

When tracking kymographs, the default refinement algorithm used to achieve sub-pixel accuracy is based on centroid refinement.
Centroid refinement can suffer from bias (tending towards the pixel center) when there is considerable background in the image.

.. figure:: bias_correction.png

    Bias due to high background.
    On the x-axis is the true position of a fluorescent spot, while on the y-axis, we see its inferred location.

>     From left to right: regular centroid refinement, bias-corrected refinement and Gaussian refinement.

Author: How about:
```
    Localization in the presence of high background.
    On the x-axis is the true position of a fluorescent spot, while on the y-axis, we see its inferred location.

    From left to right: regular centroid refinement, bias-corrected refinement and Gaussian refinement.
    The step-like progression in the centroid case is due to the bias induced by the background intensity.
    These steps originate from a bias towards the center of each pixel.
    Note how the bias corrected variant more closely agrees with the Gaussian refinement result.

    From top to bottom: The top row shows localization performed with a small window, while the bottom row shows localization performed with a small window.
    For Gaussian refinement, a larger window is beneficial (as it uses more data and models the background), while for centroid refinement it can lead to a larger estimation variance because of the inclusion of more noise.
```
for the entire figure legend?

    The step-like progression in the centroid case is due to the bias induced by the background intensity.
    Note how the bias corrected variant does not tend to the pixel centers.

Pylake `1.0.0` removes this bias using the method presented in :cite:`berglund2008fast`.

> For best results, we still recommend using :ref:`gaussian refinement<kymotracker_gaussian_refinement>` after tracking.

Reviewer: I would move this above the figure, visually clashes with the long caption

> Scale
> -----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scalebars
----------
```

Camera images now show the image in microns rather than pixels.

> .. figure:: calibrated.png

Reviewer: I would split this into its own section below this one (after introducing the scalebars, since they're used in the figures).

Author: 👍

> Sometimes, it can be nice to have a scale bar.
> Pylake `1.0.0` adds a plot widget that you can add to just about any plot.
> Simply add `scale_bar=lk.ScaleBar()` to the `.plot()` or `.export_video()` command and it will show a scale bar in the plot.
> It works in both movie export as well as regular plotting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, it can be nice to have scale bars.
With Pylake `1.0.0` you can add them to just about any image plot by simply
including a `scale_bar=lk.ScaleBar()` argument to `.plot()` or `.export_video()`.
```

The last sentence is redundant

See :class:`~lumicks.pylake.ScaleBar` for more information.

.. figure:: scalebar.gif

    Movie exported from Pylake with `scan.export_video("rgb", "scan_stack.gif", scale_bar=lk.ScaleBar()))`.

Other changes
-------------

In addition to these functionalities, we implemented various other bug-fixes and improvements.

> For a full list of all the changes, please refer to the full :doc:`changelog</changelog>`.

Reviewer: I wonder if we should note that there were extensive breaking changes? And/or perhaps explaining what `v1` actually means for people that aren't familiar with semver? Basically just mentioning that, from now, breaking changes lead to an increment in the major version number

Author: Yeah, we probably should. How about:
```
In addition to these functionalities, we implemented various other bug-fixes and improvements.
Since this is a major version release, it also includes some breaking changes.
Note that we adhere to `semantic versioning <https://semver.org/>`, meaning that we increment the major version number to indicate that there are breaking changes.
For a full list of all the changes, please refer to the full :doc:`changelog</changelog>`.
```

Pylake 1.0.0
============

.. only:: html

Pylake has made it to `v1.0.0`! And with it, several new features and improvements have been added.

Documentation
-------------

.. image:: docs.png

The documentation has been completely reworked.

> There is now a new :doc:`theory section</theory/index>` which delves into the theory of the underlying data analysis methods, including examples and references to literature for further reading.

Reviewer 2: Either use _now_ or _new_, as both together feel too much. Since this is the whatsnew section, I would opt for _now_.

> This information has been separated from the :doc:`tutorial section</tutorial/index>` so the tutorials can focus specifically on teaching you how to use Pylake.

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion
It was split out from the :doc:`tutorial section</tutorial/index>` so that the tutorials can focus more on how to use Pylake.
~~~

> In addition, both sections were extended considerably.

Reviewer 2: What's the point of this bit of info? Drop?

Reviewer 2: The last one. Not sure why GH quotes the full block without highlighting the line I actually clicked on.
> In addition, both sections were extended considerably.

Every :doc:`tutorial</tutorial/index>` now contains links to example datasets hosted on `Zenodo <https://zenodo.org/>` that are downloaded directly when running the Jupyter notebooks.

> This allows you to immediately try out the various functionalities Pylake has to offer.

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion
Every :doc:`tutorial</tutorial/index>` now contains links to real C-Trap datasets hosted on `Zenodo <https://zenodo.org/>`. They are downloaded as part of running the Jupyter notebooks.
It simplifies trying out all the available Pylake functionality with realistic use-cases provided by the Pylake team.
~~~

Author: 👍

Since `v0.13.0`, we have also reworked the `API documentation </api>` to have more information on the available functions and classes in Pylake.

Creating kymographs from camera recordings
------------------------------------------

.. image:: kymo_to_stack.png

A new feature introduced in `v1.0.0` is the ability to convert camera recordings to kymographs.

> First define a tether using :meth:`~lumicks.pylake.ImageStack.define_tether` which rotates the camera images such that the tether is aligned with the horizontal axis. Then, simply call :meth:`~lumicks.pylake.ImageStack.to_kymo`  to sum a region around the tether and construct a :class:`~lumicks.pylake.kymo.Kymo`.

Reviewer 2: one line per sentence? also removed a spurious whitespace
~~~suggestion
First define a tether using :meth:`~lumicks.pylake.ImageStack.define_tether` which rotates the camera images such that the tether is aligned with the horizontal axis. Then, simply call :meth:`~lumicks.pylake.ImageStack.to_kymo` to sum a region around the tether and construct a :class:`~lumicks.pylake.kymo.Kymo`.
~~~

To read more about this feature, please refer to the :ref:`tutorial<kymo_from_image>`.

Bias correction
---------------

When tracking kymographs, the default refinement algorithm used to achieve sub-pixel localization accuracy is based on centroid refinement.

> Centroid refinement can suffer from bias (tending towards the pixel center) when there is considerable background in the image.

Author: Background.

Pylake `1.0.0` removes this bias using the method presented in :cite:`berglund2008fast`.

> For best results, we still recommend using :ref:`gaussian refinement<kymotracker_gaussian_refinement>` after tracking.

Reviewer 2: Then write that instead?

    Note how the bias corrected variant more closely agrees with the Gaussian refinement result.

    From top to bottom: The top row shows localization performed with a small window, while the bottom row shows localization performed with a small window.
    For Gaussian refinement, a larger window is beneficial (as it uses more data and models the background), while for centroid refinement it can lead to a larger estimation variance because of the inclusion of more noise.

Scalebars
---------

Sometimes, it can be nice to have scale bars.
With Pylake `v1.0.0` you can add them to just about any image plot by simply including a `scale_bar=lk.ScaleBar()` argument to `.plot()` or `.export_video()`.
See :class:`~lumicks.pylake.ScaleBar` for more information.

.. figure:: scalebar.gif

    Movie exported from Pylake with `scan.export_video("rgb", "scan_stack.gif", scale_bar=lk.ScaleBar()))`.

Calibrated Images
-----------------

Camera images now show the image in microns rather than pixels.

.. figure:: calibrated.png

Other changes
-------------

In addition to these functionalities, we implemented various other bug-fixes and improvements.

> Since this is a major release, it also includes some breaking changes.

Reviewer 2: put the more impactful stuff on the top:
~~~suggestion
Since this is a major release, it also includes some breaking changes.
As always, we implemented various bug-fixes and other improvements.
~~~

Author: You reviewed an older version, which didn't have the bit about `semver` yet. How about:
```
Since this is a major release, it also includes some breaking changes.
Note that we adhere to `semantic versioning <https://semver.org/>`_, meaning that we increment the major version number to indicate that there are breaking changes.

As always, we implemented various other bug-fixes and improvements.
```

Reviewer 2: Sounds good to me, although the "also" and the "some" bother me a bit. But when I remove them it starts to sound off.

Author: Removing "also"  and "some". :)
